# Section V: Ansible Examples

Ansible shines brightest when applied to real-world scenarios. Let's dive into a few common use cases.

## Example 1: Development Machine Setup

We can use Ansible to configure our `development machine` or the `project` that we are working on.

- Development Machine Setup: [Github Repo](https://github.com/cristisulighetean/ansible-debian-dev-playbook/tree/main)
- Project Setup: [Github Repo]()

## Example 2: Server Security Hardening

The first configuration to be performed on any new server—especially any server with any exposure (direct or indirect) to the public Internet is security configuration.

There are nine basic measures to ensure servers are secure from unauthorized access or intercepted communications (or the so-called "5 minutes security" process).:

1. Use secure and encrypted communication.
2. Disable root login and use sudo.
3. Remove unused software, open only required ports.
4. Use the principle of least privilege.
5. Update the OS and installed software.
6. Use a properly-configured firewall.
7. Make sure log files are populated and rotated.
8. Monitor logins and block suspect IP addresses.
9. Use SELinux (Security-Enhanced Linux).

[This example](https://github.com/geerlingguy/ansible-for-devops/tree/master/security) is taken from the "Ansible for DevOps" book by Jeff Geerling.

## Example 3: Ruby on Rails App Deployment Demo

[This example](https://github.com/geerlingguy/ansible-for-devops/tree/master/deployments) is taken from the "Ansible for DevOps" book by Jeff Geerling. It is a very good example of a configuration and deployment of Ruby on Rails application.
